v7.0.0-beta.0 (#11817)
mui/mui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 7.0.0-beta.0

> _Jan 25, 2024_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Jan 26, 2024_
```

We are glad to announce MUI X v7 beta!

> This version comes with a number of improvements, bug fixes and exciting features 🎉:

Reviewer: Probably combine the announcements:
```suggestion
This version has several improvements, bug fixes, and exciting features 🎉. We want to offer a big thanks to the 7 contributors who made this release possible ✨:
```

> This version has several improvements, bug fixes, and exciting features 🎉. We want to offer a big thanks to the 7 contributors who made this release possible ✨:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This version has several improvements, bug fixes, and exciting features 🎉.
We want to offer a big thanks to the 7 contributors who made this release possible ✨:
```

### 🚀 Release the [Date Time Range Picker](https://next.mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/date-time-range-picker/) component (#9528) @LukasTy

  <img src="https://github.com/mui/mui-x/assets/4941090/122bb7bc-5e72-4e11-a8e5-96f3026de922" width="510" height="652" alt="Date Time Range Picker example" />

### 🎁 New column management panel design for the Data Grid (#11770) @MBilalShafi

  <img width="310" alt="image" src="https://github.com/mui/mui-x/assets/12609561/a79dac8b-d54d-4e69-a63a-ef78f3993f37">

> We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 7 contributors who made this release possible ✨:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- 🐞 Bugfixes
- 📚 Documentation improvements

### Data Grid

#### Breaking changes

> - The columns management component has been redesigned and the component is extracted from the `ColumnsPanel` which now only serves as a wrapper to display the component over the headers as a panel. As a result, a new slot `columnsManagement`, and corresponding prop `slotProps.columnsManagement` have been introduced. The props corresponding to the columns management component which were previously passed to the prop `slotProps.columnsPanel` should now be passed to `slotProps.columnsManagement`. `slotProps.columnsPanel` could still be used to override props corresponding to the `Panel` component used in `ColumnsPanel` which uses [`Popper`](https://next.mui.com/material-ui/react-popper/) component under the hood.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The columns management component has been redesigned and the component was extracted from the `ColumnsPanel` which now only serves as a wrapper to display the component above the headers as a panel. As a result, a new slot `columnsManagement` and the related prop `slotProps.columnsManagement` have been introduced. The props corresponding to the columns management component which were previously passed to the prop `slotProps.columnsPanel` should now be passed to `slotProps.columnsManagement`. `slotProps.columnsPanel` could still be used to override props corresponding to the `Panel` component used in `ColumnsPanel` which uses [`Popper`](https://next.mui.com/material-ui/react-popper/) component under the hood.
```

  ```diff
   <DataGrid
    slotProps={{
  -   columnsPanel: {
  +   columnsManagement: {
        sort: 'asc',
        autoFocusSearchField: false,
      },
    }}
   />
  ```

> - `Show all` and `Hide all` buttons in the `ColumnsPanel` have been combined into one `Show/Hide All` checkbox in the new columns management component. The related props `disableShowAllButton` and `disableHideAllButton` have been replaced with a new prop `disableShowHideToggle`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `Show all` and `Hide all` buttons in the `ColumnsPanel` have been combined into one `Show/Hide All` toggle in the new columns management component. The related props `disableShowAllButton` and `disableHideAllButton` have been replaced with a new prop `disableShowHideToggle`.
```

  ```diff
   <DataGrid
  -  disableShowAllButton
  -  disableHideAllButton
  +  disableShowHideToggle
   />
  ```

#### `@mui/x-data-grid@7.0.0-beta.0`

- [DataGrid] Export `GridColumnTypes` interface for custom column types (#11742) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Initialize `apiRef` early (#11792) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] New column management panel design (#11770) @MBilalShafi

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@7.0.0-beta.0` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid@7.0.0-beta.0`.

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-premium@7.0.0-beta.0` [![premium](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg-link 'Premium plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@7.0.0-beta.0`.

### Date Pickers

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers@7.0.0-beta.0`

- [pickers] Apply the `layout.tabs` class to `Tabs` slot (#11781) @LukasTy

> - [pickers] Avoid too deep imports (#11794) @LukasTy

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [pickers] Avoid deep imports (#11794) @LukasTy
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 7.0.0-beta.0

_Jan 25, 2024_

We are glad to announce MUI X v7 beta!
This version comes with a number of improvements, bug fixes and exciting features 🎉:

> ### 🚀 Release the [Date Time Range Picker](https://next.mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/date-time-range-picker/) component (#9528) @LukasTy

Author: Wasn't sure how to incorporate the bigger descriptions in the release highlights, so I used H3s, but I'd love notes on this 👍

Reviewer 4: I  would always stick with the same structure for highlights: a list of elements instead of h3 titles
But I'd be curious to see what the other thinks

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I agree, let's keep it consistent.
I'm not sure that changing the structure just for some special one-off highlights is worth the "disruption of flow". 🤔

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 7.0.0-beta.0

_Jan 25, 2024_

We are glad to announce MUI X v7 beta!
This version comes with a number of improvements, bug fixes and exciting features 🎉:

### 🚀 Release the [Date Time Range Picker](https://next.mui.com/x/react-date-pickers/date-time-range-picker/) component (#9528) @LukasTy

  <img src="https://github.com/mui/mui-x/assets/4941090/122bb7bc-5e72-4e11-a8e5-96f3026de922" width="510" height="652" alt="Date Time Range Picker example" />

### 🎁 New column management panel design for the Data Grid (#11770) @MBilalShafi

#### Extract columns management component

The columns management component (previously part of Columns Panel) has now been extracted as a separate component and slot with its dedicated `slotProps`. The motivation behind the change is to allow it to be reused in the newly proposed pivoting design (on the right side of the grid, in its dedicated space)

> #### Design changes

Author: Should we include an image for this? 🤔

Reviewer: Added

  ```diff
   <DataGrid
    slotProps={{
  -   columnsPanel: {
  +   columnsManagement: {
        sort: 'asc',
        autoFocusSearchField: false,
      },
    }}
   />
  ```

- `Show all` and `Hide all` buttons in the `ColumnsPanel` have been combined into one `Show/Hide All` checkbox in the new columns management component. The related props `disableShowAllButton` and `disableHideAllButton` have been replaced with a new prop `disableShowHideToggle`.
  From https://github.com/mui/mui-x/pull/9528

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 7 contributors who made this release possible ✨:

- 🐞 Bugfixes
- 📚 Documentation improvements

### Data Grid

#### `@mui/x-data-grid@7.0.0-beta.0`

- [DataGrid] Export `GridColumnTypes` interface for custom column types (#11742) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Initialize `apiRef` early (#11792) @cherniavskii

> - [DataGrid] New column management panel design (#11770) @MBilalShafi

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] New column management panel design (#11770) @MBilalShafi
- [DataGrid] Fix support for tree with more than 50,000 children (#11757) @zenazn
```

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@7.0.0-beta.0` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-date-pickers@7.0.0-beta.0`, plus:

- [pickers] Add `DateTimeRangePicker` component (#9528) @LukasTy
- [pickers] Add `DateTimeRangePicker` theme augmentation (#11814) @LukasTy
- [DateRangePicker] Remove `calendars` prop on `Mobile` (#11752) @LukasTy

### Tree View / `@mui/x-tree-view@7.0.0-beta.0`

- [TreeView] Remove unused props from prop-types and typing (#11778) @flaviendelangle
- [TreeView] Throw an error when two items have the same id (#11715) @flaviendelangle

### Docs

- [docs] Add `contextValue` to the headless tree view doc (#11705) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Fix brand name non-breaking space (#11758) @oliviertassinari
- [docs] Fix typo in Data Grid components page (#11775) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Fix use of quote, should use callout (#11759) @oliviertassinari
- [docs] Improve error message for MUI Vale rule @oliviertassinari
- [docs] Include `DateTimeRangePicker` in relevant demos (#11815) @LukasTy

### Core

- [core] Cleanup script and alias setup (#11749) @LukasTy
- [core] Polish issue templates @oliviertassinari

> - [data grid] Fix support for tree with > 50,000 children (#11757) @zenazn

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```
